---
title: "📓 3.1.1.7 State"
day: monday
id: 3-1-1-7-state
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

**State** is an extremely important concept in computer programming. In simple, very general terms, state is anything we are asking a computer to remember. We can think of it as a "snapshot" of the application at any given time. It defines the current conditions of an application.

When we created applications with object-oriented programming, we used constructors to create stateful objects. We also created methods that would allow us to update and do things with these objects. In other words, we regularly mutated state.

However, in functional programming, we want to avoid mutating state. Where possible, our functions should be pure and avoid side effects. We should aim to make our application as immutable as we can. We could also say that our goal is to make the application **stateless**.

While this is a lofty goal, the simple fact is that applications often do need to store state. The challenge in functional programming is managing state without directly mutating it.

Ultimately, using functional programming doesn't mean we can't work with state. However, it does mean that we need to think very carefully about how to incorporate state in a functional program. Different tools and frameworks provide different approaches - we'll explore state management in React later in the course.

In the next lesson, we'll explore one approach to storing state using closures - a way to preserve data within functions.